<h3>Serilization</h3>
<ul>
  <li>It is a mechanism of writing the state of an object into a byte-stream</li>
  <li>It is mainly used in Hibernate, RMI, JPA, EJB and JMS technologies.</li>
  <li>For serializing the object, we call the writeObject() method of ObjectOutputStream</li>
  </ul>
  
  <h3>Deserilzation</h3>
  <ul>
  <li>The reverse operation of serialization is called deserialization where byte-stream is converted into an object</li>
  <li>The serialization and deserialization process is platform-independent.
   <li> Can serialize an object on one platform and deserialize it on a different platform.</li>
  <li>For deserialization we call the readObject() method of ObjectInputStream class.</li>
  </ul>
  
  <h3>Java Serialization with Inheritance (IS-A Relationship)</h3>
    <ul>
  <li>If a class implements Serializable interface then all its sub classes will also be serializable</li>
   </ul>
   
   <h3>Java Serialization with Aggregation (HAS-A Relationship)</h3>
    <ul>
  <li>If a class has a reference to another class, all the references must be Serializable otherwise serialization process will not be performed. In such case, NotSerializableException is thrown at runtime.</li>
   </ul>
   
<h3>Java Serialization with the static data member</h3>
  <ul>
  <li>If there is any static data member in a class, it will not be serialized because static is the part of class not object.</li>
 </ul>
 
 <h3>What is SerialVersionUID?</h3>
   <ul>
  <li>In Java, the Serialization Version ID (also known as serialVersionUID) is a unique identifier associated with a serializable class. It is used during the serialization and deserialization process to verify that the sender and receiver of a serialized object have loaded classes for that object that are compatible with respect to serialization.</li>
  <li>When an object is serialized, its serialVersionUID is included in the serialized form. When the object is deserialized, the serialVersionUID in the serialized form is compared with the serialVersionUID of the loaded class. If the values don't match, an InvalidClassException is thrown, indicating a mismatch between the serialized object and the class definition.</li>
  <li>The serialVersionUID is a static field that you can explicitly declare in your class, or it can be automatically generated by the Java runtime using a hash of the class structure. If you don't declare a serialVersionUID in your class, the Java runtime will automatically generate one based on the class definition. However, it's generally recommended to explicitly declare a serialVersionUID in your classes to ensure a consistent serialization behavior, especially when dealing with distributed systems or when you anticipate class structure changes.</li>
 </ul>
 
 <h3>Transient keyword</h3>
 <h4>Transient keyword is used for below cases</h4>
 <ul>
  <li>Field should not be serialized when an object of the class is serialized</li>
  <li>When you want to exclude specific fields from being persisted.</li>
  </ul>
  <h4>Some common scenarios where you might use the transient keyword include</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>Fields holding sensitive information (e.g., passwords, encryption keys) that you don't want to persist.</li>
  <li>Fields that are derived or calculated based on other fields and don't need to be saved</li>
    <li>Fields referencing non-serializable objects that you don't want to include in the serialized form.</li>
  </ul>
  
  

